FEATURES.md, before:

# Future Features

## 🎯 Planned Tools

### Core Infrastructure Improvements

#### `validate-design`
Validates design specifications against accessibility personas.
- **Parameters**: `design_description` (string), `personas` (array), `interaction_type` (string)
- **Returns**: Accessibility issues identified per persona with severity levels
- **Use Case**: Early design validation to catch accessibility issues before implementation
- **Example**: `validate-design design_description="Modal popup with small X button in top-right corner" personas=["motor-impaired-non-speaking", "low-vision"] interaction_type="web"`

#### `generate-test-cases`
Creates specific test scenarios based on personas.
- **Parameters**: `feature_description` (string), `personas` (array), `test_type` (string)
- **Returns**: Detailed test cases with steps, expected outcomes, and tools needed
- **Use Case**: QA teams can generate comprehensive accessibility test suites
- **Example**: `generate-test-cases feature_description="E-commerce checkout flow" personas=["deaf-blind", "sighted-deaf-hoh-low-tech"] test_type="automated"`

### Practical Implementation Tools

#### `accessibility-checklist`
Generates context-aware accessibility checklists.
- **Parameters**: `project_type` (string), `personas` (array), `team_role` (string)
- **Returns**: Role-specific, persona-informed accessibility checklist
- **Use Case**: Different team members get relevant guidance for their role
- **Example**: `accessibility-checklist project_type="mobile-app" personas=["motor-impaired-non-speaking"] team_role="developer"`

#### `code-review-assistant`
Analyzes code snippets for accessibility issues.
- **Parameters**: `code` (string), `framework` (string), `target_personas` (array)
- **Returns**: Specific accessibility issues with fix suggestions
- **Use Case**: Automated accessibility code review integration
- **Example**: `code-review-assistant code="<button style='color: red;'>Click here</button>" framework="html" target_personas=["deaf-blind", "low-vision"]`

### Team Collaboration Features

#### `persona-story-mapping`
Generates user stories from persona perspective.
- **Parameters**: `feature` (string), `personas` (array), `story_format` (string)
- **Returns**: Persona-specific user stories with acceptance criteria
- **Use Case**: Product managers create accessibility-informed user stories

#### `accessibility-requirements`
Converts persona needs into technical requirements.
- **Parameters**: `project_scope` (string), `personas` (array), `output_format` (string)
- **Returns**: Actionable technical requirements with priority levels
- **Use Case**: Translate persona insights into actionable development tasks

### Real-World Application Tools

#### `wcag-mapping`
Maps persona needs to WCAG guidelines.
- **Parameters**: `persona` (string), `wcag_level` (string), `content_type` (string)
- **Returns**: Relevant WCAG criteria with persona-specific implementation notes
- **Use Case**: Compliance teams ensure comprehensive WCAG coverage

#### `assistive-tech-compatibility`
Checks compatibility with assistive technologies.
- **Parameters**: `technology_stack` (array), `personas` (array), `platform` (string)
- **Returns**: Compatibility matrix with testing recommendations
- **Use Case**: Technical teams validate assistive technology support

### Advanced Features

#### `persona-impact-analysis`
Analyzes how changes affect different personas.
- **Parameters**: `change_description` (string), `current_implementation` (string), `affected_personas` (array)
- **Returns**: Impact assessment with mitigation strategies
- **Use Case**: Change management and accessibility impact assessment

#### `accessibility-metrics`
Generates measurable accessibility goals.
- **Parameters**: `personas` (array), `business_goals` (array), `timeline` (string)
- **Returns**: SMART accessibility goals with measurement methods
- **Use Case**: Setting and tracking accessibility success metrics

---

### Persona Metadata Support
- Add frontmatter parsing for persona metadata
- Support for persona categories or tags
- Version tracking for persona updates

### Enhanced Error Handling
- Validate persona file format
- Handle corrupted or invalid markdown files
- Provide more detailed error messages

### Performance Optimizations
- Cache persona list on server startup
- Implement file watching for dynamic updates
- Add persona content caching with invalidation

### Pattern Quality Improvements
*Added from patterns analysis August 2025*

#### Pattern Specificity Review
- **Review pattern breadth**: Some patterns may be too broad (e.g., "visual-dependency" catches many cases) or too narrow (persona-specific literacy patterns)
- **Consolidate similar patterns**: Multiple literacy assumption patterns could be merged into a single, more comprehensive pattern
- **Pattern effectiveness analysis**: Track which patterns catch the most issues and refine accordingly

#### Enhanced Contextual Checks
- **Expand contextual patterns**: Current file has very few contextual patterns compared to static regex patterns
- **Multi-condition patterns**: Add patterns that trigger only when multiple conditions are met
- **Platform-specific patterns**: Different accessibility concerns for web vs mobile vs desktop applications
- **Industry-specific patterns**: Healthcare, finance, education may have unique accessibility requirements

#### Persona Combination Analysis
- **Intersectional barriers**: Some accessibility barriers only emerge when multiple personas interact with the same interface
- **Persona priority scoring**: Weight patterns based on severity and affected population size
- **Dynamic persona selection**: Suggest most relevant personas based on detected patterns in content
- **Persona conflict detection**: Identify when accommodations for one persona might create barriers for another

#### Pattern Maintenance Tools
- **Pattern usage analytics**: Track which patterns are triggered most frequently
- **Pattern accuracy validation**: Tools to test if patterns correctly identify accessibility issues
- **Community pattern contributions**: Allow users to suggest new patterns based on real-world testing
- **Pattern version control**: Track changes to patterns over time and their impact on detection accuracy

### Additional Tools
- Search personas by keywords or characteristics
- Get persona summary/excerpt
- Validate persona file format
- Export personas in different formats
- Persona comparison tool
- Custom persona creation wizard
- Integration with popular design tools (Figma, Sketch)
- Accessibility audit report generation

### Integration Opportunities
- VS Code extension for inline accessibility guidance
- GitHub Actions for automated accessibility checks
- Slack/Teams bot for accessibility consultations
- CI/CD pipeline integration for accessibility testing
- Design system integration for component validation

## #get-persona multiple personas
Add support for retrieving multiple personas at once, allowing users to specify a list of personas they want to retrieve.

Add support for retrieving personas by Title and ID, allowing users to specify either a title or ID to retrieve the corresponding persona.

### Example Usage   
```bash
#get-persona low-vision, deaf-blind
Retrieve personas for low vision and deaf-blind users.
#get-persona "low vision", "deaf-blind"
Retrieve personas for low vision and deaf-blind users by title.
```

Commit message:

feat: Enhance #get-persona tool to support multiple personas and add product requirements review tool

FEATURES.md, after:

# Future Features

## 🎯 Planned Tools

### Core Infrastructure Improvements

#### `validate-design`
Validates design specifications against accessibility personas.
- **Parameters**: `design_description` (string), `personas` (array), `interaction_type` (string)
- **Returns**: Accessibility issues identified per persona with severity levels
- **Use Case**: Early design validation to catch accessibility issues before implementation
- **Example**: `validate-design design_description="Modal popup with small X button in top-right corner" personas=["motor-impaired-non-speaking", "low-vision"] interaction_type="web"`

#### `generate-test-cases`
Creates specific test scenarios based on personas.
- **Parameters**: `feature_description` (string), `personas` (array), `test_type` (string)
- **Returns**: Detailed test cases with steps, expected outcomes, and tools needed
- **Use Case**: QA teams can generate comprehensive accessibility test suites
- **Example**: `generate-test-cases feature_description="E-commerce checkout flow" personas=["deaf-blind", "sighted-deaf-hoh-low-tech"] test_type="automated"`

### Practical Implementation Tools

#### `accessibility-checklist`
Generates context-aware accessibility checklists.
- **Parameters**: `project_type` (string), `personas` (array), `team_role` (string)
- **Returns**: Role-specific, persona-informed accessibility checklist
- **Use Case**: Different team members get relevant guidance for their role
- **Example**: `accessibility-checklist project_type="mobile-app" personas=["motor-impaired-non-speaking"] team_role="developer"`

#### `code-review-assistant`
Analyzes code snippets for accessibility issues.
- **Parameters**: `code` (string), `framework` (string), `target_personas` (array)
- **Returns**: Specific accessibility issues with fix suggestions
- **Use Case**: Automated accessibility code review integration
- **Example**: `code-review-assistant code="<button style='color: red;'>Click here</button>" framework="html" target_personas=["deaf-blind", "low-vision"]`

### Team Collaboration Features

#### `persona-story-mapping`
Generates user stories from persona perspective.
- **Parameters**: `feature` (string), `personas` (array), `story_format` (string)
- **Returns**: Persona-specific user stories with acceptance criteria
- **Use Case**: Product managers create accessibility-informed user stories

#### `accessibility-requirements`
Converts persona needs into technical requirements.
- **Parameters**: `project_scope` (string), `personas` (array), `output_format` (string)
- **Returns**: Actionable technical requirements with priority levels
- **Use Case**: Translate persona insights into actionable development tasks

### Real-World Application Tools

#### `wcag-mapping`
Maps persona needs to WCAG guidelines.
- **Parameters**: `persona` (string), `wcag_level` (string), `content_type` (string)
- **Returns**: Relevant WCAG criteria with persona-specific implementation notes
- **Use Case**: Compliance teams ensure comprehensive WCAG coverage

#### `assistive-tech-compatibility`
Checks compatibility with assistive technologies.
- **Parameters**: `technology_stack` (array), `personas` (array), `platform` (string)
- **Returns**: Compatibility matrix with testing recommendations
- **Use Case**: Technical teams validate assistive technology support

### Advanced Features

#### `persona-impact-analysis`
Analyzes how changes affect different personas.
- **Parameters**: `change_description` (string), `current_implementation` (string), `affected_personas` (array)
- **Returns**: Impact assessment with mitigation strategies
- **Use Case**: Change management and accessibility impact assessment

#### `accessibility-metrics`
Generates measurable accessibility goals.
- **Parameters**: `personas` (array), `business_goals` (array), `timeline` (string)
- **Returns**: SMART accessibility goals with measurement methods
- **Use Case**: Setting and tracking accessibility success metrics

---

### Persona Metadata Support
- Add frontmatter parsing for persona metadata
- Support for persona categories or tags
- Version tracking for persona updates

### Enhanced Error Handling
- Validate persona file format
- Handle corrupted or invalid markdown files
- Provide more detailed error messages

### Performance Optimizations
- Cache persona list on server startup
- Implement file watching for dynamic updates
- Add persona content caching with invalidation

### Pattern Quality Improvements
*Added from patterns analysis August 2025*

#### Pattern Specificity Review
- **Review pattern breadth**: Some patterns may be too broad (e.g., "visual-dependency" catches many cases) or too narrow (persona-specific literacy patterns)
- **Consolidate similar patterns**: Multiple literacy assumption patterns could be merged into a single, more comprehensive pattern
- **Pattern effectiveness analysis**: Track which patterns catch the most issues and refine accordingly

#### Enhanced Contextual Checks
- **Expand contextual patterns**: Current file has very few contextual patterns compared to static regex patterns
- **Multi-condition patterns**: Add patterns that trigger only when multiple conditions are met
- **Platform-specific patterns**: Different accessibility concerns for web vs mobile vs desktop applications
- **Industry-specific patterns**: Healthcare, finance, education may have unique accessibility requirements

#### Persona Combination Analysis
- **Intersectional barriers**: Some accessibility barriers only emerge when multiple personas interact with the same interface
- **Persona priority scoring**: Weight patterns based on severity and affected population size
- **Dynamic persona selection**: Suggest most relevant personas based on detected patterns in content
- **Persona conflict detection**: Identify when accommodations for one persona might create barriers for another

#### Pattern Maintenance Tools
- **Pattern usage analytics**: Track which patterns are triggered most frequently
- **Pattern accuracy validation**: Tools to test if patterns correctly identify accessibility issues
- **Community pattern contributions**: Allow users to suggest new patterns based on real-world testing
- **Pattern version control**: Track changes to patterns over time and their impact on detection accuracy

### Additional Tools
- Search personas by keywords or characteristics
- Get persona summary/excerpt
- Validate persona file format
- Export personas in different formats
- Persona comparison tool
- Custom persona creation wizard
- Integration with popular design tools (Figma, Sketch)
- Accessibility audit report generation

### Integration Opportunities
- VS Code extension for inline accessibility guidance
- GitHub Actions for automated accessibility checks
- Slack/Teams bot for accessibility consultations
- CI/CD pipeline integration for accessibility testing
- Design system integration for component validation

## #get-persona Tool multiple personas support
Add support for retrieving multiple personas at once, allowing users to specify a list of personas they want to retrieve.

Add support for retrieving personas by Title and ID, allowing users to specify either a title or ID to retrieve the corresponding persona.

### Example Usage   
```bash
#get-persona low-vision, deaf-blind
Retrieve personas for low vision and deaf-blind users.
#get-persona "low vision", "deaf-blind"
Retrieve personas for low vision and deaf-blind users by title.
```

## Product Requirements Review Tool
### `review-product-requirements`
Reviews product requirements through the lens of accessibility personas to identify barriers and suggest improvements.
- **Parameters**: `requirements` (string), `personas` (array)
- **Returns**: Accessibility grade (A-F), persona-specific issues with severity levels, suggested improvements, and inclusive alternatives.
- **Use Case**: Product managers can ensure requirements are inclusive from the start
